Add docs for KEP-3329 Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs (#35219)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy.md

---

> title: Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy

Reviewer: These task contents are great! 😃

They really show the usefulness of the feature.

content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.25
weight: 60
---

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

<!-- overview -->

This task demonstrates how to use the
[Pod failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-failure-policy),
in combination with the default
[Pod backoff failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-backoff-failure-policy),
to improve your control over the handling of pod failures.

This may help you to better utilize the computational resources by avoiding

> unnecessary Pod retries. Additionally, it can let you avoid unnecessary Job
> failures due to Pod disruptions (such preemption, eviction by API or taint-based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unnecessary Pod retries. It also lets you avoid Job
failures due to Pod disruptions (such preemption, eviction by API or taint-based
```

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

eviction).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

You should already be familiar with the basic use of [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/).

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

{{< note >}}

> As the feature is in Alpha, prepare the Kubernetes cluster with the two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the features are in Alpha, prepare the Kubernetes cluster with the two
```

Author: Updated

## Using Pod failure policy to ignore Pod disruptions

The purpose of this example is to illustrate how to use Pod failure policy to
ignore Pod disruptions from incrementing the Pod retry counter towards the
`.spec.backoffLimit` limit.

First, create a Job based on the config:

{{< codenew file="/controllers/job-pod-failure-policy-ignore.yaml" >}}

by running:

```sh
kubectl create -f job-pod-failure-policy-ignore.yaml
```

Second, run this command to check the `nodeName` the pod is scheduled to:

```sh
nodeName=$(kubectl get pods -l job-name=job-pod-failure-policy-ignore -o jsonpath='{.items[0].spec.nodeName}')
```

Then, drain the node to evict the pod:
```sh
kubectl drain nodes/$nodeName --ignore-daemonsets --grace-period=0
```

The `.status.failed` counter for the job is not incremented by inspecting the output of the command:
```sh
kubectl get jobs -l job-name=job-pod-failure-policy-ignore -o yaml
```

Finally, uncordon the node:
```sh
kubectl uncordon nodes/$nodeName
```

The Job resumes and succeeds.

For comparison, if the Pod failure policy was disabled the Pod disruption would
result in terminating the entire Job (as the `.spec.backoffLimit` is set to 0).

> 

Author: Added cleanup step do delete the job to both examples:

---
title: Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.25
weight: 60
---

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

<!-- overview -->

> This task demonstrates how to use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document shows you how to use the
```

[Pod failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-failure-policy),
in combination with the default
[Pod backoff failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-backoff-failure-policy),

> to improve your control over the handling of container- or Pod-level failure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to improve the control over the handling of container- or Pod-level failure
```

within a {{<glossary_tooltip text="Job" term_id="job">}}.

> This may help you to better utilize the computational resources by avoiding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The definition of Pod failure policy and Pod backoff failure policy may help you to better utilize the computational resources by avoiding
```

Author: I think connecting both policies by `and` suggest they play the same role here, which might be misleading. Pod failure policy is meant to `fix` limitations of Pod backoff failure policy which is enabled by default.

Author: Rephrased, please take a look

> unnecessary Pod retries. It also lets you avoid Job

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
unnecessary Pod retries. These policies also prevent Job
```

failures due to Pod disruptions (such {{< glossary_tooltip text="preemption" term_id="preemption" >}},
{{< glossary_tooltip text="API-initiated eviction" term_id="api-eviction" >}}
or {{< glossary_tooltip text="taint" term_id="taint" >}}-based eviction).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

You should already be familiar with the basic use of [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/).

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

{{< note >}}
As the features are in Alpha, prepare the Kubernetes cluster with the two
[feature gates](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled: `JobPodFailurePolicy` and `PodDisruptionsCondition`.
{{< /note >}}

## Using Pod failure policy to avoid unnecessary Pod retries

> The purpose of this example is to illustrate how to use Pod failure policy to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the following example, you can learn how to use Pod failure policy to
```

avoid unnecessary Pod restarts when a Pod failure indicates a non-retriable
software bug.

First, create a Job based on the config:

{{< codenew file="/controllers/job-pod-failure-policy-failjob.yaml" >}}

by running:

```sh
kubectl create -f job-pod-failure-policy-failjob.yaml
```

After around 30s the entire Job should be terminated. You may inspect the status

> of the Job by running:

Reviewer 2: "Inspect the status of the Job by running:"

```sh
kubectl get jobs -l job-name=job-pod-failure-policy-failjob -o yaml
```

> In the Job status you will see a job `Failed` condition with the field `reason`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Job status, see a job `Failed` condition with the field `reason`
```

> equal `PodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, the `message` field will contain a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
equal `PodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, the `message` field contains a
```

more detailed information about the Job termination, such as:
`Container main for pod default/job-pod-failure-policy-failjob-8ckj8 failed with exit code 42 matching FailJob rule at index 0`.

For comparison, if the Pod failure policy was disabled it would take 6 retries

> of the Pod, taking at least 2min.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the Pod, taking at least 2 minutes.
```

### Clean up

> Delete the Job you created, the cluster automatically cleans up the Pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the Job you created:
```

```sh
kubectl delete jobs/job-pod-failure-policy-failjob
```

> 

Reviewer 2: The cluster automatically cleans up the Pods.

## Using Pod failure policy to ignore Pod disruptions

> The purpose of this example is to illustrate how to use Pod failure policy to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the following example, you can learn how to use Pod failure policy to
```

ignore Pod disruptions from incrementing the Pod retry counter towards the
`.spec.backoffLimit` limit.

{{< caution >}}

> Timing is important for this experiment, so you may want to read the steps before

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Timing is important for this example, so you may want to read the steps before
```

execution. In order to trigger a Pod disruption it is important to drain the
node while the Pod is running on it (within 90s since the Pod is scheduled).
{{< /caution >}}

> First, create a Job based on the config:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a Job based on the config:
```

{{< codenew file="/controllers/job-pod-failure-policy-ignore.yaml" >}}

by running:

```sh
kubectl create -f job-pod-failure-policy-ignore.yaml
```

> Second, run this command to check the `nodeName` the Pod is scheduled to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run this command to check the `nodeName` the Pod is scheduled to:
```

```sh
nodeName=$(kubectl get pods -l job-name=job-pod-failure-policy-ignore -o jsonpath='{.items[0].spec.nodeName}')
```

> Then, drain the node to evict the Pod before it completes (within 90s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Drain the node to evict the Pod before it completes (within 90s):
```

```sh
kubectl drain nodes/$nodeName --ignore-daemonsets --grace-period=0
```

> The `.status.failed` counter for the Job is not incremented by inspecting the output of the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Inspect the `.status.failed` to check the counter for the Job is not incremented:
```

```sh
kubectl get jobs -l job-name=job-pod-failure-policy-ignore -o yaml
```

> Finally, uncordon the node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Uncordon the node:
```

```sh
kubectl uncordon nodes/$nodeName
```

The Job resumes and succeeds.

For comparison, if the Pod failure policy was disabled the Pod disruption would
result in terminating the entire Job (as the `.spec.backoffLimit` is set to 0).

> ### Clean up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cleaning up
```

> Delete the Job you created, the cluster automatically cleans up the Pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the Job you created:
```

```sh
kubectl delete jobs/job-pod-failure-policy-ignore
```

> 

Reviewer 2: The cluster automatically cleans up the Pods.

## Alternatives

You could rely solely on the
[Pod backoff failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-backoff-failure-policy),
by specifying the Job's `.spec.backoffLimit` field. However, in many situations

> it is problematic to find a balance between setting the `.spec.backoffLimit`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it is problematic to find a balance between setting the a low value for `.spec.backoffLimit`
```

> small to avoid unnecessary Pod retries, yet high enough to make sure the Job would

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 to avoid unnecessary Pod retries, yet high enough to make sure the Job would
```

---
title: Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.25
weight: 60
---

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

<!-- overview -->

This document shows you how to use the
[Pod failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-failure-policy),
in combination with the default
[Pod backoff failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job#pod-backoff-failure-policy),
to improve the control over the handling of container- or Pod-level failure
within a {{<glossary_tooltip text="Job" term_id="job">}}.

> The definition of Pod failure policy may help you to better utilize the computational
> resources by avoiding unnecessary Pod retries. This policy also lets you avoid Job
> failures due to Pod disruptions (such {{< glossary_tooltip text="preemption" term_id="preemption" >}},
> {{< glossary_tooltip text="API-initiated eviction" term_id="api-eviction" >}}
> or {{< glossary_tooltip text="taint" term_id="taint" >}}-based eviction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition of Pod failure policy may help you to:
* better utilize the computational resources by avoiding unnecessary Pod retries.
* avoid Jobfailures due to Pod disruptions (such {{< glossary_tooltip text="preemption" term_id="preemption" >}},
{{< glossary_tooltip text="API-initiated eviction" term_id="api-eviction" >}}
or {{< glossary_tooltip text="taint" term_id="taint" >}}-based eviction).
```

Author: Applied with fixed typo
